# Assessing ZWD models in delay and height domains using data from stations in different climate regions
# DOI https://doi.org/10.1007/s12518-021-00414-y

Abstract:

Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) has revolutionized activities involving geodetic positioning. To achieve a desired accuracy, it is essential to model the atmosphere in an appropriate way. With respect to the neutral atmosphere, the signal sent by the satellite suffers a delay when crossing this layer during its travel to the receiver on the surface, the so-called neutral atmospheric delay. Although empirical models exist, they may not be suitable to represent microclimatic variations in different regions of the globe due to peculiarities that exist in diverse areas. To minimize this limitation, correction models based on numerical weather prediction (NWP) emerge. They allow the assessment of the delay from local atmospheric parameters and the evaluation of atmospheric particularities of each region. In addition, another way to obtain neutral atmosphere delay is by making use of data from radiosondes, which measure atmospheric data at various altitude levels. The main objective of this article is to investigate the performance of different models using GNSS data collected in countries with different climatic conditions. Assessment is performed on the positioning domain using the precise point positioning (PPP) technique. The results show that the proximity between the NWP-based models and radiosondes was approximately 3 cm, and that between empirical models was 5 cm, with variations that depended on the model and the region. Regarding the impact on the height component, the difference between the accuracy of the empirical and NWP models was approximately 16 cm.
